Binary Search

Alice has some cards with numbers written on them. She arranges the cards in decreasing
order, and lays them out face down in a sequence on a table. She challenges Bob to pick out the card
containing a given number by turning over as few cards as possible. Write a function to help Bob locate the card.



""" 1. There is a series of cards sorted in descending order. There is a target card with a given number on it.
    find the card while checking as few cards as possible.
    2a. example input -> cards = [9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3,] , target_card = 5  (a list of numbers and a target card)
    2b. example output -> " The card "5" is found at index 4 " (index of the target card)
    3. Create a function called "binary_search" that iterates over a given input list.
             use a "for-loop" for iteration,
             start iteration from the middle index if the input is odd,
             start iteration from the index that corresponds to the length of the list / 2 if the input list is even
             because the input is sorted,
             if the initial number is greater than the target, get rid of every number before that number and that.
"""


""" BRUTE FORCE SIMPLE SOLUTION
1. if the target card is not within the cards list, return -1
2. else, go through each element of the cards list and compare the value with the target
3. if the value == the target value, return the current index

def locate_card(cards, target):
    if target not in cards:
        return -1
    else:
        for i in range(len(cards)):
            if cards[i] == target:
                return i
"""

""" FINAL SOLUTION: Binary Search
1. Begin the algorithm at the middle of the cards list. (length of the list divided by 2)
2. If the value at the middle == the target, return the index.
3. If it is less than the target number search the first half of the list.
4. If it is greater than the target number, search the second half of the list.
5. If no more elements remain return -1
"""
1. State the problem clearly. Identify the input and output formats.

	Problem:
		You are given a list of integers.
		They are sorted from least to greatest (index n < index n +1).
		There is a target value in the list.
		Return the index of the target value if it exists. Otherwise, return -1.

	Input: List of integers
	Output: Single integer (the index of the target value or - 1 if not found)


2. Come up with some example inputs & outputs. Take note of the constraints and try to cover all edge cases.

	Constraints:
		All the integers in list are unique.
		list is sorted in ascending order.
	These Constraints mean that:
		There could be negative numbers
		There could be large value gaps
		The number could not be in the list at all
		The number could be the only value in the list.

	What if the numbers are both negative and positive?
	Input: [-3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3],  1
	Output: 3

	What if each number is in ascending order but their not adjacent numbers?
	Input: [-1,0,3,5,9,12], 9
	Output: 4

	What if there is only one number in the list?
	Input: [-1], -1
	Output: 0




3. Come up with a correct solution for the problem. State it in plain English.
	*** Because we dont know how many iterations it will take to
	    find the target, we will use a while loop ***

	1. find the middle point of the list of numbers
	2. check if the value at the middle point is greater than or less than the target value
	3. If the middle point value is greater than the target value, we dont have to look at any
		indexes past that point because they will all be greater so we can eliminate that
		section of the list from the search
	4. If the middle value is less than the target value, we dont have to look at any index
		values before it because they will all be less than the target value. Therefore,
		we can eliminate that part of the list from the search.
	5. Since there are no repeated values, once we find the target we must return that index.
	6 If the target value is definitely not in the list, return -1

4. Implement the solution and test it using example inputs. Fix bugs, if any.
	1. Define a while loop that runs until the low value is greater than the high value
		meaning that the whole list has been searched through

	2. Define the bounds vars that will be used to iterate over
		low = 0
		high = upper bound of the list

	3. find the middle point of the list of numbers
		the middle index is the low bound + the high bound // 2
		the middle value is the value at the middle index
		*** This must be within the loop***

		Considering the fact that the middle index is wrong when the list length is even
		We can subtract 1 when the list length is even, but lets think of a constant time
		way to do this.

	4. If the middle point value is greater than the target value, we dont have to look at any
		indexes past that point because they will all be greater so we can eliminate that
		section of the list from the search
			How do we shrink the scope?
				Set the high bounds equal to one less than current middle point

	4. If the middle point value is less than the target value, we dont have to look at any
		indexes before that point because they will all be less so we can eliminate that
		section of the list from the search
			How do we shrink the scope?
				Set the low bounds equal to one more than current middle point
	5. If the while loop ends without reaching a return statement, then the target is not in
		the list so return -1


5. Analyze the algorithm's complexity and identify inefficiencies, if any.
	inefficiency #1: find a simpler way to find the middle value.

6. Apply the right technique to overcome the inefficiency. Repeat steps 3 to 6.
